---
layout: individual
title: On Ideas
category: writing
---

I like to make things, and sometimes I get carried away with their ideas. Once an idea for a website, or lettering, or video, or movie, or artwork, or whatever takes hold in my mind, I have a hard time ignoring it.

Sometimes the idea genesis starts when a friend says &ldquo;I would really like to do (insert seemingly difficult thing here).&rdquo; Oh no. It&rsquo;s starting. How can I make this possible with my current skill set? Think, think, think. Sketch, draw, think. Sleep, do something else, talk it out, think. Sketch, draw, think. Go eat ice cream, sit, think. Repeat.

This unintentional &ldquo;process&rdquo; can be very exhausting, but it&rsquo;s what I love. Idea fruition should be treated like finger-painting or coloring outside the lines. Be a kid. Be a kid with a of knowledge of how the world works. Play with your ideas. Ask questions. What happens when you take an idea, toss it in the air and explode it like one of those technical drawings of an engine? What do you see? 

Several years ago in college, one-time in particular, I was having an extremely hard time focusing. I could not get anything done and everything was a distraction. My girlfriend at the time was taking Adderall for her A.D.D. symptoms and suggested I take one. I did, and about 15 minutes later, I was super-focused and quickly finished the project I was working on. Later, after it wore off, I was scared how much of a different person I was. 

While I was Focused Ryan, nothing else mattered except the thing that was right in front of me. Like mental horse-blinders. Like snap-to-pixels for the mind, except not in the good way. What if I forgot to do something important, because I was so focused on the task at hand? My brain doesn&rsquo;t work that way. I am all over the place all the time.

I never took one again and never will. I was a different person and didn&rsquo;t like the experience. I&rsquo;d take those random thoughts which race through my brain all day, over one focused thought process any day.

However your brain naturally acts and reacts, nurture your ideas, even if that means letting them float around your head all day. Let them exist without fear of death. Let them grow, however slowly, into a creature that you can&rsquo;t leave in a pot any longer.