---
layout: listing
title: School of Art
category: writing
---

### My experiences were awesome

From the Fall of 2004 to the Spring of 2009, I attended Louisiana Tech University. The first four months (two quarters) in school I was learning to be a mechanical engineer and hated most of it. In choosing a major, my goal wasn't to be in an industry I loved, but rather, make mucho dinero. Because of my disinterest and laziness, my GPA dropped to 1.8, and I had lost part of my scholarships by the end of those two quarters. Soon after, my father gave me a thorough kicking of the buttocks and made me realize some important things about school and the reason why I was there. When I returned after the Christmas break that first year, I promptly changed my major to something I knew I would love, and although it was a bit of a risk, as I didn't know entirely what graphic design was, I knew it involved computers and art: two of my favorite things.     The first class I took was a beginner drawing class. Students who couldn't draw were taught the fundamentals of artistic expression, eventually developing skills to draw a decent still life, and I was in love after the first assignment. As I spent more time in general education classes, I began to bring together knowledge from other fields into my art and themes from psychology, physics, and literature played starring roles in many projects. Other art classes in the first year, which were focused entirely on design fundamentals, had curriculum for sculpting, painting, a lot of drawing, and even performance art. The first year was playful for me, and we were encouraged to experiment and embarrass ourselves if necessary. Those assignments where we didn't restrain ourselves, we learned the most.

After getting past the first year in the Communication Design program, I started my foray into graphic design, which was much more difficult. Far behind were the days of bad craft for the sake of getting an idea out. There were no longer any excuses for sloppy work, conceptually or craft-wise. The slightest pencil mark left on the edge of the paper dropped the project a half-letter grade. Forgetting to put the label on the back of the finished, mounted project dropped another half-letter grade. That first year was about developing a killer attention to detail.

Once the project allowed more room for imagination and conceptual decision-making, critiques became more intense, and the classroom became a (somewhat) safe sparring ground for students to go head-to-project with other students. Nothing was sacred, and those who expressed their freedom to point out imbalances, inconsistencies, and improper communication in their peers' work were rewarded by strengthening the ability to articulate what they could feel. These students excelled, while those with a more lackadaisical nature did not.

As a design/art student, I was given grades I felt I didn't deserve (on both ends of the spectrum), but regardless of the final number, I tried to never lose sight of one simple goal: to absorb as much experience and knowledge I could in respect to the fundamentals of design. I wanted my muscles to drip contrast, bulge with color, and sweat balance.

Of course, there were some things I didn't learn. Not that they weren't taught to me, but I was either too distracted, bored, or lazy (or all of the the above), which caused some very important things to flake off into the whirlpool that was college. However, the things that I did take away, far exceeded that of those I didn't. In the same vein, there are subjects I wish the curriculum focused more on, so that I would have been more prepared for those first jobs, but in reality, college cannot teach everything about the industry.

### The Nature of Switzerland

College is a neutral, exactly like any other path or opportunity. There are fantastic and mind-blowing things about it, things I wouldn't trade for the world, and things that have dramatically altered other paths I encountered after Fall 2004. I was in a university band, I joined a fraternity, I learned how to step. I learned about psychology and literature and economics and business and marketing and music. I developed an interest in writing and learned how to create a voice within that writing, Confidence, responsibility, time-management were forcibly practiced daily. I met my wife and other life-long friends. Alternatively, many detrimental things happened, things I wish I'd done differently.

To get the most out of anything, you must work. You must work hard. Opportunity will knock, but only if a door exist. If there is no door, build one. If there isn't lumber available, use a different material. No apprenticeship, no internship, no train ride, no vacation, and no formal education on Earth will yield useful results if your attitude is content with minimum accomplishment.

Whether we're talking about college or some other path, keep in mind the beauty of life: nothing is ever final, until you die. Although not easy, you can always choose another path. If path X didn't work for you, try path C and D. If path A didn't work for you, try M. Don't feel like any one path is any easier that the other, just different. Different challenges and different results. Different doors will open and others will close.